README.md, before:

# Righteous Tentacle, Colecovision Reverse Engineering Project
### Schematic and PCB reproduction.

---

  author: Jay Convertino

  date: 2023.03.01

  details: Reverse engineer original PCB to create a schematic and functional replacment board.

  license: MIT

---

## TODO
  - So much, Wiki fixes, documents, and PCB build and checks.

## LICENSE
  - All files related to or generated from the KiCAD source fall under the MIT license.
  - All files generated by me, Jay Convertino, fall under the MIT license.
  - All files from other sources fall under the license of their specification.

## RELEASE VERSIONS
### Current
  - DEV

### Past
  - None

## Wiki
  - Please see the [Wiki](../../wiki) for various information.

## Parts list
  - [Link to Wiki Parts list for the original console](../../wiki/Detailed-Part-Listing-For-Original)
  - [Link to Wiki Parts list for ordering parts](../../wiki/Detailed-Part-Listing-For-Orders)

## SOURCES
### Schematic Check
  - Atari HQ Schematic : https://wiki.console5.com/wiki/Colecovision : Dan Boris
  - Atari Age : https://forums.atariage.com/topic/285656-new-colecovision-schematics/ : ChildOfCV

  Special thanks to ChildOfCV. Using his as a check for mine after buzzing out my own board was a great help. His schematic on
  its own is a great resource.

  Did find a few issues with mine vs the ChildOfCV version, my board is a different revision so they will differ in subtle ways.
  Seems to be mostly just cap and resistor values in the RF circuit. Though I did adjust my values on the clock to reflect those
  recommend in the tech manual.

  The Dan Boris schematic is ok, has a few mistakes that I can't recall at the moment. Mentioning it since I did look at it, but
  due to its issues I didn't use it.

## REQUIREMENTS
  - KiCAD v6.X

## BUILD TIPS
  This design is made so anyone can build this. You may send it out to a fab house, you may use a PCB mill, or even etch it.
  This is possible since the components can serve as the plated through hole. Other holes can simply have a solid piece of
  wire inserted and soldered to complete the connection (excess resistor leads is a great option).

  Recommend soldering the cartridge connector first, the CPU makes soldering one side of the pins a bit difficult to do
  without melting the connector.

## FILE INFORMATION
  - README.md, is this file.
  - LICENSE.md, is the license file (MIT) for anything create by me, Jay Convertion, that resides in this repository.
  - doc, contains various documents used.
    - datasheets, contains parts used on the original board.
    - refs, sources used for checks
      - Coleco_ADAM_Schematic_-_Delta_Game.png, publicly available schematic of the ADAM
      - Coleco.zip, ChildOfCV schematic for the console and other various parts of the colecovision.
      - colecovision_atari_hq_schematic.pdf, Colecovision console schematic has errors.
      - tms-doc-annotated.pdf, TMS design document corrected by Nicholas Piegdon
  - models, PCB items and case designes
    - component_search_engine
    - FreeCAD
      - case, 3D printable case for the console.
      - parts, parts designed for the PCB by myself and future contributions.
  - pics, images take by me or others(watermark added) of the colecovision.
    - 3D, images generated by modeling tools.
    - control_pcb, pics of a different Colecovision console pcb (different REV) for comparison.
    - control_unit, pics of a different Colecovision console for comparison.
    - outside_sources, external sources with added watermark.
    - reverse_high_res, scans from a Canon 9600 DPI flatbed scanner of the PCB boards. Compressed to save space.
    - tear_down, images of the parts as they came apart.
    - signals
      - digital, all digital domain captures
      - analog, all analog domain captures
  - schematic, contains KiCAD schematic files.
    - coleco_original.kicad_pro, this file is the main project file that contains EVERTHING.
    - *-backups, are folders KiCAD creates to backup the project.
    - gerber, containts all exports from KiCAD
      - main, base PCB
      - rf, modulator PCB
    - GIMP_Placement_Tool, gimp project used to help place parts in the correct locations.
    - lib, external components for KiCAD
      - CONNECTOR_PCBEdge_EXT
      - LOGOS
      - MHPS2273
      - MODELS
      - MOUNTS
      - OS102011MA1QN1
      - PADS
      - POWER_SYMBOLS
      - RCJ-041
      - RF_MODULATORS
      - SWITCHES_THT
      - TE_550841-2
      - VARIABLE_INDUCTORS
      - VINTAGE_AUDIO_SYNTH
      - VINTAGE_RAM
      - VINTAGE_VDP
    - PDF, various KiCAD exports in the PDF format. PCB and/or schematics.

## PCB IMAGE

![pcb_3D_img](pics/3D/coleco_original_both.png)

Commit message:

first commit of verison 1.0.0, missing documents for signals and 3D enclosure.

README.md, after:

# Righteous Tentacle, Colecovision Reverse Engineering Project
### Schematic and PCB reproduction.

---

  author: Jay Convertino

  date: 2023.03.01

  details: Reverse engineer original PCB to create a schematic and functional replacment board.

  license: MIT

---

## LICENSE
  - All files related to or generated from the KiCAD source fall under the MIT license.
  - All files generated by me, Jay Convertino, fall under the MIT license.
  - All files from other sources fall under the license of their specification.

## RELEASE VERSIONS
### Current
  - 1.0.0 - initial release of revision E

### Past
  - DEV

## Wiki
  - Please see the [Wiki](../../wiki) for various information.

## Parts list
  - [Link to Wiki Parts list for the original console](../../wiki/Detailed-Part-Listing-For-Original)
  - [Link to Wiki Parts list for ordering parts](../../wiki/Detailed-Part-Listing-For-Orders)

## SOURCES
### Schematic Check
  - Atari HQ Schematic : https://wiki.console5.com/wiki/Colecovision : Dan Boris
  - Atari Age : https://forums.atariage.com/topic/285656-new-colecovision-schematics/ : ChildOfCV

  Special thanks to ChildOfCV. Using his as a check for mine after buzzing out my own board was a great help. His schematic on
  its own is a great resource.

  Did find a few issues with mine vs the ChildOfCV version, my board is a different revision so they will differ in subtle ways.
  Seems to be mostly just cap and resistor values in the RF circuit. Though I did adjust my values on the clock to reflect those
  recommend in the tech manual.

  The Dan Boris schematic is ok, has a few mistakes that I can't recall at the moment. Mentioning it since I did look at it, but
  due to its issues I didn't use it.

## REQUIREMENTS
  - KiCAD v6.X

## BUILD TIPS
  This design is made so anyone can build this. You may send it out to a fab house, you may use a PCB mill, or even etch it.
  This is possible since the components can serve as the plated through hole. Other holes can simply have a solid piece of
  wire inserted and soldered to complete the connection (excess resistor leads is a great option).

  Recommend soldering the cartridge connector first, the CPU makes soldering one side of the pins a bit difficult to do
  without melting the connector.

## FILE INFORMATION
  - README.md, is this file.
  - LICENSE.md, is the license file (MIT) for anything create by me, Jay Convertion, that resides in this repository.
  - doc, contains various documents used.
    - datasheets, contains parts used on the original board.
    - refs, sources used for checks
      - Coleco_ADAM_Schematic_-_Delta_Game.png, publicly available schematic of the ADAM
      - Coleco.zip, ChildOfCV schematic for the console and other various parts of the colecovision.
      - colecovision_atari_hq_schematic.pdf, Colecovision console schematic has errors.
      - tms-doc-annotated.pdf, TMS design document corrected by Nicholas Piegdon
  - models, PCB items and case designes
    - component_search_engine
    - FreeCAD
      - case, 3D printable case for the console.
      - parts, parts designed for the PCB by myself and future contributions.
  - pics, images take by me or others(watermark added) of the colecovision.
    - 3D, images generated by modeling tools.
    - control_pcb, pics of a different Colecovision console pcb (different REV) for comparison.
    - control_unit, pics of a different Colecovision console for comparison.
    - outside_sources, external sources with added watermark.
    - reverse_high_res, scans from a Canon 9600 DPI flatbed scanner of the PCB boards. Compressed to save space.
    - tear_down, images of the parts as they came apart.
    - signals
      - digital, all digital domain captures
      - analog, all analog domain captures
  - schematic, contains KiCAD schematic files.
    - coleco_original.kicad_pro, this file is the main project file that contains EVERTHING.
    - *-backups, are folders KiCAD creates to backup the project.
    - PCB_TOOLS
      - gerber, containts all exports from KiCAD
        - main, base PCB
        - rf, modulator PCB
      - GIMP_Placement_Tool, gimp project used to help place parts in the correct locations.
      - main, contains the main PCB extracted from the main project for production.
      - rf, contains RF PCB extracted from the main project for production.
    - lib, external components for KiCAD
      - CONNECTOR_PCBEdge_EXT
      - LOGOS
      - MHPS2273
      - MODELS
      - MOUNTS
      - OS102011MA1QN1
      - PADS
      - POWER_SYMBOLS
      - RCJ-041
      - RF_MODULATORS
      - SWITCHES_THT
      - TE_550841-2
      - VARIABLE_INDUCTORS
      - VINTAGE_AUDIO_SYNTH
      - VINTAGE_RAM
      - VINTAGE_VDP
    - PDF, various KiCAD exports in the PDF format. PCB and/or schematics.

## PCB IMAGE

![pcb_3D_img](pics/3D/coleco_original_both.png)
